Update microsoft-auth-guide.md (#1809)
demisto/content-docs: content-repo/extra-docs/articles/microsoft-auth-guide.md

    <img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/instance_detailed_instructions_new.png" align="middle"></img>

> 5. In the XSOAR Web Page that appears, click **Start Authorization Process** to initiate the authorization flow. 

Reviewer: should this be step 4?

To use a self-configured Azure application, add a new Azure App Registration in the Azure Portal. 
For instructions on adding the registration, see the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)

The application must have the required permissions and roles for the relevant APIs, as documented in the integration documentation. For more information, see [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection required permissions](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/integrations/microsoft-defender-advanced-threat-protection#required-permissions).

The authentication flow you choose depends on the integration’s purpose and the target it acts on:

- **Client Credentials Flow:** Used on behalf of the application. The integration authenticates as the application itself, not a user, allowing it to perform API requests at the tenant or organization level.
- **Authoriztion Code Flow:** Used on behalf of a signed-in user through an interactive login.
This flow grants access based on the user’s permissions and is ideal for integrations that require user consent or need to act under a specific user’s identity.

> - **Device Code Flow:** When configured using this flow, the integration operates under the user’s context, similar to the Authorization Code Flow, but it is designed for devices or environments where a browser-based login is not available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Device Code Flow:** When configured using this flow, the integration operates under the user’s context, similar to the authorization code flow, but it is designed for devices or environments where a browser-based login is not available.
```

### Using National Cloud

- To see which integrations support natively National Clouds,See the [table below.](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/articles/microsoft-integrations---authentication#supported-authentication-flows-for-microsoft-integrations) 
  - For Microsoft Azure integrations, select the appropriate cloud using the *Azure Cloud* parameter.
  - For Microsoft Defender, select the appropriate cloud using the *Endpoint Type* parameter.
  - To use the self-deployment option, select *Custom* and follow the instructions below.

- Some Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM Microsoft integrations support the deployment of national clouds through the self-deployed
 authorization flow. For more information about Microsoft National Clouds, see the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/deployments).
 To use a national cloud, change the *Server URL* parameter to the corresponding address of the national cloud you are using.

# Authentication Flows

:::info Security Awareness: Device Code Authorization

> It is recommended to use the client credentials and user authorization flows for integrations when possible. The device code authorization flow has limited protections against sophisticated phishing campaigns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use the Client Credentials or User Authorization flows for integrations whenever possible. The Device Code Authorization flow provides limited protection against sophisticated phishing campaigns.
```

In no scenario emails or other forms of communication will be sent to the customer asking to enter a security code or follow a link. All generated links and codes will be shown in the War Room, by running the official integration commands.

> More info at: [Device Code flow - Evolved phishing](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2022/01/26/evolved-phishing-device-registration-trick-adds-to-phishers-toolbox-for-victims-without-mfa/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Device Code flow - Evolved phishing](https://www.microsoft.com/security/blog/2022/01/26/evolved-phishing-device-registration-trick-adds-to-phishers-toolbox-for-victims-without-mfa/)
```

:::

## Client Credentials Flow

> Some Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM Microsoft integrations use the [client credentials flow](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM Microsoft integrations use the [Client Credentials Flow](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-client-creds-grant-flow).
```

When configured using this flow, the integration operates at the organization (tenant) level, allowing actions to be performed across the entire tenant. This flow typically uses application permissions, which must be defined in the Azure application configuration within the Azure Portal. These permissions determine that all XSOAR/XSIAM commands executed through this authentication method act within the organization or tenant scope.

For this flow, the Tenant ID, Client ID, and Client secret are required for the integration. You can get those values from the Azure Portal under the application information.
Follow these steps:

1. Enter the Azure Portal.
2. Search for you application using your application name or ID. You can search for it under the "App registrations" or to use the search bar.
3. When you find the application, click on it and go to the Overview section.
4. Copy the "Application (client) ID" and paste it under the App/Client ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

> 5. Copy the "Directory (tenant) ID" and paste it under the Token/Tenant ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Copy the "Directory (tenant) ID" and paste it in the Token/Tenant ID parameter field in the XSOAR/XSIAM instance configuration.
```

6. In the application cofiguration go to "Certificates & secrets" and click on "New client secret", click on "Add" and copy the secret **value**. Paste it under the Client Secret parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.
7. In the instance configuration, select the ***Use a self-deployed Azure Application*** checkbox in the integration instance configuration.
8. Test and Save the instance.

> **Note:** Make sure the neccessary permissions and roles are applied to the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Make sure the necessary permissions and roles are applied to the application.
```

### Certificate Thumbprint and Private Key
Alternatively, instead of providing the *Client Secret*, you can authenticate using certificate credentials by providing:
    
- **Certificate Thumbprint** - The certificate thumbprint as appears when registering the certificate to the App
- **Private Key** -  The private key of the registered certificate
    

>  You can find more information about it in [Microsoft Documentations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-certificate-credentials) or to follow the next steps in case of Mac/Linux operating systems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Microsoft Documentations](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-certificate-credentials). Follow the steps below for Mac/Linux operating systems:
```

>  1. Run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 1. Run the following commands:
```

    
    ```
    openssl genrsa -out MyXSOARApp.key 2048
    openssl req -new -x509 -key MyXSOARApp.key -out MyXSOARApp.crt -days 365 -subj "/CN=MyXSOARApp"
    openssl x509 -in MyXSOARApp.crt -noout -fingerprint -sha1
    ```
 

> 2. You will get results such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You receive results similar to the following:
```

    ```
   sha1 Fingerprint=E4:64:9A:AD:13:A4:F4:E0:74:11
    ```

3. Remove the colons, this is your certificate thumbprint. For example:
   
    ```
   E4649AAD13A4F4E07411
    ```

4. Next, run:

   ```
   cat MyXSOARApp.key
   ```
   

>     You will get results such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You receive results similar to the following:
```

   
    ```
    -----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
    ff12gg4kilo2gftvy54.....
    -----END PRIVATE KEY-----
    ```
   
    This is your private key, include the headers.

> 5. Next, go to Azure Portal → App registrations → Select your app → Certificates & secrets → Certificates. Click “Upload certificate”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Go to Azure Portal → App registrations → select your app → Certificates & secrets → Certificates. Click “Upload certificate”.
```

> 6. Select your public certificate, the file with the name **MyXSOARApp.crt** (not the .key file). Click on "Add".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Select your public certificate file named **MyXSOARApp.crt** (do not select the .key file) and click "Add".
```

> 7. Paste the private key and the certificate thumbprint to the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM and click on "Test".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Paste the private key and the certificate thumbprint into the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM, then click "Test".
```

## Authorization Code flow
Some Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM Microsoft integrations (e.g., Microsoft Graph Mail Single User) require authorization on behalf of a user (not admin consent). For more information about this authorization flow, refer to the [authorization code flow](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-auth-code-flow).
When configured using this flow, the integration operates under the user’s context, allowing actions based on the signed-in user’s permissions. This flow uses delegated permissions, which are defined in the Azure application configuration in the Azure Portal.
The user who authenticates must have the same roles and permissions as those granted to the application. These permissions determine which actions the user can perform through XSOAR/XSIAM commands, according to their privileges within the organization or tenant.

For this flow, the Tenant ID, Client ID, Client secret and Redirect URI are required for the integration. You can get those values from the Azure Portal under the application information.
Follow these steps:

> 1. In your app, click **Authentication** > **Platform configurations** > **Add a platform.** Choose **Web** and add [Redirect URI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app#add-a-redirect-uri).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your app, click **Authentication** > **Platform configurations** > **Add a platform.** Choose **Web** and add a [Redirect URI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity-platform/quickstart-register-app#add-a-redirect-uri).
```

> The Redirect URI can direct any web application that you wish to receive responses from Azure AD. If you are not sure what to set, you can use `https://localhost`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Redirect URI is the address where Azure AD sends the login response. If you are not sure what to set, you can use `https://localhost`.
```

2. Enter your redirect URI in the *Redirect URI* parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.
3. Go to "Overview" section. Copy the "Application (client) ID" and paste it under the App/Client ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

> 4. Copy the "Directory (tenant) ID" and paste it under the Token/Tenant ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the "Directory (tenant) ID" and paste it in the Token/Tenant ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.
```

> 5. In the application cofiguration go to "Certificates & secrets" and click on "New client secret", click on "Add" and copy the secret **value**. Paste it under the Client Secret parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the application configuration go to "Certificates & secrets", click "New client secret", then "Add". Copy the secret **value** and paste it under the Client Secret parameter field in the XSOAR/XSIAM instance configuration.
```

6. Select the ***Use a self-deployed Azure Application*** checkbox in the integration instance configuration.
7. Save the instance.

> 8. Run the `!<integration command prefix>-generate-login-url` command in the War Room and follow the instructions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Run the `!<integration command prefix>-generate-login-url` command in the War Room and follow these instructions:
```

>     >1. Click on the [login URL]() to sign in and grant Cortex XSOAR permissions for your Azure Service Management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >1. Click the [login URL]() to sign in and grant Cortex XSOAR permissions to access your Azure Service Management.
```

    You will be automatically redirected to a link with the following structure:
    ```REDIRECT_URI?code=AUTH_CODE&session_state=SESSION_STATE```
    >2. Copy the `AUTH_CODE` (between the `code=` prefix and the `session_state` prefix)
    and paste it in your instance configuration under the *Authorization code* parameter. 
    >3. For any issues, see [Authorization Code flow Troubleshooting](#authorization-code-flow-troubleshooting).

9. Save the instance.
10. Run the `!<integration command prefix>-auth-test` command. A 'Success' message should be printed to the War Room.

> **Note:** Make sure the neccessary permissions and roles are applied to the application and to the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Make sure the neccessary permissions and roles are applied to the application and the user.
```

> ### Example for configuring [Microsoft Graph User integration](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/integrations/microsoft-graph-user) using a self-deployed and authorization code flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example: configuring the [Microsoft Graph User integration](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/integrations/microsoft-graph-user) using a self-deployed and authorization code flow
```

1. In Microsoft Azure portal, create a new app registration.

>    1. Select **App registrations** -> **New registration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Select **App registrations** -> **New registration**.
```

        <img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/app-reg.png" align="middle"></img>

>    2. In the **Redirect URI (optional)** field select **Web** and type a name (you can enter an arbitrary name). In this example we use *https<nolink\>://xsoar.* 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   3. In the **Redirect URI (optional)** field select **Web** and type a name (you can enter an arbitrary name). In this example, we use *https<nolink\>://xsoar.* 
```

        <img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/reg-app.png" align="middle"></img>

   3. Click **Register**.
   
        You can see the Essential information here:
       
        <img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/essentials.png" align="middle"></img>

   5. Copy the following information that apear under the "Overview" section:
      - Application (client) ID
      - Directory (tenant) ID
  

> 3. Go to **API permissions** -> Add a permission -> Microsoft Graph -> Delegated permission. Search for `Directory.AccessAsUser.All`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Go to **API permissions** -> Add a permission -> Microsoft Graph -> Delegated permission. Search for `Directory.AccessAsUser.All`.
```

> 4. Click Add permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click Add permissions.
```

      
        <img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/app-api.png" align="middle"></img>

> 5. Repeat step 3 for the following permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Repeat step 3 for the following permissions:
```
I think this might be referring to step 5, can you check, the numbering is not consistent

     - Directory.Read.All - Delegated
     - User.ReadWrite.All - Application
     - User.Read - Delegated

> 6. Next, create a new instance for the integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Create a new instance for the integration.
```

7. Enter your redirect URI in the *Redirect URI* parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

> 3. Paste the "Application (client) ID" under the App/Client ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Paste the "Application (client) ID" in the App/Client ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.
```

> 4. Paste "Directory (tenant) ID" under the Token/Tenant ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Paste "Directory (tenant) ID" in the Token/Tenant ID parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.
```

> 5. In the application cofiguration go to "Certificates & secrets" and click on "New client secret", click on "Add" and copy the secret **value**. Paste it under the Client Secret parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. In the application cofiguration go to "Certificates & secrets", click "New client secret", then "Add". Copy the secret **value**, and paste it under the Client Secret parameter field in the instance configuration in XSOAR/XSIAM.
```

6. Click the **Use a self-deployed Azure application** checkbox.

> 7. Click on Save and Exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click Save and Exit.
```

9. Under the **Authorization code (for Self Deployed - Authorization Code Flow)**, field in the instance configuration, paste the code from the previous step. 
10. Save the instance and test the setup by running the *!msgraph-user-test* command from the Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM CLI.

## Device Code Flow
Some Cortex XSOAR-Microsoft integrations use the [device code flow](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v2-oauth2-device-code).
When configured using this flow, the integration operates under the user’s context, similar to the Authorization Code Flow, but it is designed for devices or environments where a browser-based login is not available. This flow also uses delegated permissions, which must be defined in the Azure application configuration in the Azure Portal.
The user authenticating via the device code must have the same roles and permissions as those granted to the application. These permissions determine which actions the user can perform through XSOAR/XSIAM commands within the organization or tenant scope.

> During authentication, the user will be provided with a code and a URL. They must enter the code at the URL using a browser on any device to complete the sign-in process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During authentication, the user is provided with a code and a URL. They must enter the code at the URL using a browser on any device to complete the sign-in process.
```

    <img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/instance_detailed_instructions_new.png" align="middle"></img>

5. In the XSOAR Web Page that appears, click the **Start Authorization Process** button to initiate the authorization flow. 
   You will receive your ID, token, and key. Go back to the instance configuration and copy: ID -> App/client ID, token -> Tenant ID, key -> Client Secret.

>    Click on "Test". The instance should be configured successfully. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Click "Test". The instance should be configured successfully. 
```

# Self Deployed Application

> To use a self-configured Azure application, you need to add a new Azure App Registration in the Azure Portal. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a self-configured Azure application, add a new Azure App Registration in the Azure Portal. 
```

> To add the registration, refer to the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instructions on adding the registration, see the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/quickstart-register-app)
```

> The application must have the required permissions and roles for the relevant APIs, which are documented in the integration documentation, for example see [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection required permissions](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/integrations/microsoft-defender-advanced-threat-protection#required-permissions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application must have the required permissions and roles for the relevant APIs, as documented in the integration documentation. For more information, see [Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection required permissions](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/reference/integrations/microsoft-defender-advanced-threat-protection#required-permissions).
```

The authentication flow you choose depends on the integration’s purpose and the target it will act on:

- **Client Credentials Flow:** Used on behalf of the application. This means the integration authenticates as the application itself, not a user.

> It allows performing API requests at the tenant or organization level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
remove text, as appended above

- **Authoriztion Code Flow:** Used on behalf of a signed-in user through an interactive login.
This flow grants access based on the user’s permissions and is ideal for integrations that require user consent or need to act under a specific user’s identity.
- **Device Code Flow:** When configured using this flow, the integration operates under the user’s context, similar to the Authorization Code Flow, but it is designed for devices or environments where a browser-based login is not available.

#### Permission Types and Flows
- **Delegated permissions** are used when the integration acts on behalf of a signed-in user and require either the **Authorization Code Flow or Device Code Flow**.
- **Application permissions** are used when the integration acts as the application itself, without a user, and require the **Client Credentials Flow**.

<img width="800" src="../../../docs/doc_imgs/tutorials/tut-microsoft-auth-guide/delegated_vs_application_permissions.png" align="middle"></img>

> You can read more about each flow in the relevant section below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read more about each flow in the relevant sections below.
```

  - For Microsoft Defender, select the appropriate cloud using the *Endpoint Type* parameter.

>   - For using the self-deployment option, select the *Custom* option and follow the instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To use the self-deployment option, select *Custom* and follow the instructions below.
```

   2. Select your User Assigned Managed Identity -> copy the Client ID -> paste it in the **Azure Managed Identities Client ID** field in the instance settings.
   3. Select **Azure Managed Identities** from the **Authentication Type** drop down or select the **Use Azure Managed Identities** checkbox.

# Revoke Consent

In order to revoke consent to a Cortex XSOAR Microsoft application, refer to the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-convert-app-to-be-multi-tenant#revoking-consent). 

# How to find Azure Integrations Parameters

> In order to use the Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM Azure application, you need to fill in your subscription ID and resource group name, which you can find in the Azure Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Cortex XSOAR/XSIAM Azure application, provide your Subscription ID and Resource Group Name, which can be found in the Azure Portal.
```
